~
Julius Caesar
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8f/Gaius_Iulius_Caesar_%28Vatican_Museum%29.jpg
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julius_Caesar#Personal_life
Posthumous portrait in marble
Julius Caesar
The Pax Romana was a period from roughly 27 BCE to 180 CE during which Rome experienced peace, stability, and expansion. Before this time, Rome had almost constantly been engaged in some major war, civil or otherwise. Roman citizens saw war as a good thing, because war meant conquest, conquest meant looting, capturing, enslaving, expanding, wealth, and power. Rome was at its largest during this time, reaching all the way to Asia. This period is often said to have begun with Octavian’s ascension after Julius Caesar. Caesar, a powerful governor returning home from his conquest of Gaul, had begun a civil war when he crossed into Rome with his legion against the Senate’s orders. He quickly defeated Pompey, his main opponent and powerful Senator, and became the dictator. Roman dictatorship, similar to martial law, bestowed the full authority of the state on a magistrate so he can accomplish a specific task, typically military.
Caesar was dictator for 11 days, in which he pardoned exiled criminals, restored rights to oppressed children, relieved debt, oversaw his own election to the Consul, and finally ceded his powers. Later, he was again granted dictatorship for one year to defeat some of Rome’s enemies in the middle east. He was swiftly victorious, and was made dictator for ten years by the Senate. He moved to consolidate his rule and form the empire by quelling opposition from the provinces, strengthening the central government in Rome, and bring together the provinces into one empire. Rome was previously the central piece in what was more a viscous collective than a solid empire. He maintained his power by granting himself greater authority and limiting the influence of the Senate. In just the five years between 49 BCE and 44 BCE, Caesar gained unimaginable power and his reforms are felt every day (especially on our calendars). His death left a question for the Senate: would Rome continue to enforce Caesar’s vision of a unified Roman Empire, or would it revert to the old republic. In the meantime, one of the largest power vacuums of history was waiting to be filled. Eventually overcoming all other contenders was Octavian, Caesar’s grand-nephew and heir, who took the title “princeps”, literally meaning “first citizen”. He ruled for life, from 27 BCE to 14 CE.
~
Class System
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8c/Patrizio_Torlonia.jpg
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_Rome#Class_structure
Bust of Patrician Cato the Elder
Cato The Elder
Roman society was thoroughly structured and hierarchical, with each class having more privileges than those below  them. This class system was simply the way of life for Romans. To them, this was normal, acceptable, justified, and just the way it  has always been. There was little guilt about or questioning of the pervasive slavery. It was seen as an axiom of life that higher classes were justified in exploiting those below them, and that they were intrinsically deserving of more than others. This belief was one of the core aspects of the Roman mindset: The strong rule the weak. They enslaved the people and armies they defeated.
This class system was legally defined, with different laws, rights and punishments for each class. Slaves, freed slaves, and freed criminals were some of the lowest tiered people. Slaves literally had no legal rights, and the others have barely more than that. Value in the class system is derived from power, and the tool of the elite is control of property and low social-mobility. The average citizen was a Plebian. Made up of most traditional roles one pictures: peasants, farmers, craftsmen. These Plebeians lived on and worked for the estate of a Patrician, who in turn gained some amount of power over those people. As in any contract, the common people cede some of their freedoms to the Patricians in exchange for something. The Elite’s power stemmed from their total monopoly on land, ensuring that each citizen lives on someone’s ‘territory’.
The phrase “rigid class hierarchy and slavery” near-universally triggers a negative reaction in people of the modern age. People’s morality reflect their world. Slavery was perceived by the romans, just as casually as a modern person would perceive poverty. Both Slavery and poverty are forms of oppression of a certain group by the elite, and while some Romans might have recognized something was wrong with it, on the whole their society accepted it. Modern times seem firm in their concern for poverty and inequality, but as of yet there has been little large-scale societal changes.
Class Inequality is tumorous in a society. As human morality shifts with the generations, each time period’s values are reflected in the laws they write, like layers of sediment. Every time in history has had some oppressed group, either for race, class, religion, or any other defining aspect of a group. Class privilege isn’t just a single law that can be changed or removed at will. Solving it requires massive societal changes that are far too radical to ever be feasible, and as such prejudice, while slowly but surely being whittled away, is still festering with the influence of the past. Inequality is hard-coded into the core of our society, and it has been since at least Ancient Rome.
~
slavery
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/59/Boulanger-gustave-clarence-rudolphe-french-1824-1888-the-slave-market.png
https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Boulanger-gustave-clarence-rudolphe-french-1824-1888-the-slave-market.png
the Slave Market
Slave market
Slavery was omnipresent in Roman culture. Inequality was an accepted part of Roman life, stemming from the myth of Jupiter overthrowing Saturn. It was seen as an axiom of life that the strong rule over the weak, and that freedom was a privilege, not a right. In fact, many believed slaves were necessary for freedom itself. This belief of the Strong’s right to rule is most exemplified in the practice of taking a conquered enemy’s people as slaves. This was perceived as just, earned in victory. Slaves were acquired through conquest, slave trade, or on occasion through willingly selling oneself. Slavery was so normalized that parades of slaves with advertisements around their necks were found in almost every market and town square. In some places slaves made up almost 30 percent of the population. Some wealthy romans would have hundreds. Slaves were a status symbol, so the rich often flaunted their exotic or numerous slaves. Of course, not everybody owned slaves. The rich held the vast majority, but even a modest shop could have one or two.
Slaves legally had no rights. They could not own property, begin a family, or in any way exist without their owner. They were in essentially just another object owned. Slave labor was used in every aspect of roman life. Almost all unskilled labor was delegated to slaves or unpaid workers. Slave labor was most extensive in agriculture, mining, and in the home. The wealthy would have several slaves who tended to them in their day to day, and multitudes more working in their fields or on their estate.
Excluding personal slaves who would be seen in public, slaves were kept in brutal conditions. Farm laborers would live in cramped barracks, chained together, and fed the bare minimum to keep them working. To their owners, slaves were only their labor, and thus they were not afforded any comfort. Slaves main benefit was their price, and any comfort would cost more and therefore make slaves overall less valuable.
Roman slaves, though very rarely, could actually gain freedom. This freedom could be granted by their owner, but more often was purchased by the slave. Often this freedom was not absolute, for instance an owner might receive some portion of the freed slaves income, or could inherit the slaves property. The children of freed slaves were born free people.
~
The Coliseum
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/53/Colosseum_in_Rome%2C_Italy_-_April_2007.jpg
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colosseum
The Coliseum
Coliseum
Rome is the archetypical ancient civilization. It was the sprawling empire that influenced science, math, arts, and medieval culture. In present day, Rome’s past lives on with the ruins of their creations. The winding streets surrounding the Roman forum, the archaeological site  flanked by a McDonalds and a Starbucks. One of the most iconic remnants of the Romans is the Coliseum, commissioned approximately around 70-72 AD by Emperor Vespasian as a gift to the Roman citizens. An ancient day stadium that could fill over 50,000 people, unlike any other early amphitheaters in that it was a freestanding structure, rather than carved out of a hill. There are 80 entrances into the Coliseum and it is believed to have had a rudimentary plumbing system, a luxury compared to the standard lifestyle of Roman citizens during that time period. The Coliseum once had an awning attached to its roof that could be extended over top of the sitting areas to protect the citizens from the sun. As one of the most impressive structures of its time, it served as a reminder of the state’s wealth and power.
To celebrate the inauguration, Vespasian’s son Titus began the 100 days of games.
Among the events: Animal games, executions of criminals, gladiatorial combat, and periodically flooding the arena to reenact famous naval battles.
One of the underlying motivations for building the Coliseum was that it was used to distract and control the masses of Roman citizens. The citizens would fill the seats, and be encapsulated by the people in the ring battle against each other or wild beast. Those who were the entertainment were prisoners, slaves, and those who wanted to show their bravery to the public eye. Winning events such as the Gladiators came with great honor and prizes of women and feasts. Some Emperors offered the citizens free food as a way to gain popularity and support from the public. no matter the social standard of the people.
Because of the destruction from natural phenomenons and recklessness of the citizens destroying the ruins, the Coliseum was abandoned for more than one thousand years until a restoration project was started in 1990s. The Coliseum is now apart of millions of tourists dream destinations as they view a remarkable piece of architecture from the past.
~
Fall of Rome
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/0d/Genseric_sacking_rome_456.jpg
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaiseric#Africa
Genseric Sacking Rome
Genseric
Rome was sacked for the third time in 455 AD at the hands of the Vandal King Genseric. They had smashed the city’s aqueducts and marched into the capital of the Western Roman Empire, and had killed their emperor, Petronius Maximus. After their period of tremendous growth during the Pax Romana, the Roman Empire had conquered and expanded so much that their armies were now costing them money. Before, the military had been paying for itself with the spoils of their victories. But their armies were so massive that they could not conquer enough. Soldiers could not be paid by the state, making their armies as a whole less effective. Mistrust had formed between the state and the armies, which only grew as Emperor Severus Alexander continued to struggle in war. His generals, angered that Alexander had bribed their enemies, assassinated him so they could put Maximinus Thrax. This assassination and nigh military coup initiated a destabilizing of the empire. This instability eventually grew into the Middle Ages. Roman quality of life had worsened; politics, the economy, and the military were all in decline. The recession also meant less arts and sciences, and in turn less progress on a human-civilization scale.
~
Jupiter
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/82/Francisco_de_Goya%2C_Saturno_devorando_a_su_hijo_%281819-1823%29.jpg
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Francisco_de_Goya,_Saturno_devorando_a_su_hijo_(1819-1823).jpg
Saturn devours his Son
Saturn
It was foretold that Saturn would be overthrown by one of his own sons. He swallowed each of his children, Ceres, Vesta, Juno, Pluto and Neptune, as infants to protect himself. His sixth child, Jupiter, was saved by his mother Rhea, who instead gave Saturn a swaddled stone. Jupiter was raised in secret, and when he was grown he gave his father an emetic, freeing his brothers and sisters from their father. Jupiter freed the Hecatonchires and Cyclopes, who made Jupiter’s iconic lightning bolt as a weapon against the Titans. Jupiter and his siblings  overthrew the Titans, and began their rule. Jupiter became the King of the Gods, god of the sky and thunder.
~
Secret Message
../me_irl.JPG
https://www.dictionary.com/e/slang/yeet/
Im in this image and I dont like it
sheen
It probably doesnt seem like it but I actually put a lot of work into this project. Its a very low bar, but I almost never complete solo assignments any amount of time more than the day before. To be honest this assignment has each element Ive struggled with. Difficult subject for me, self paced, just six days before I leave high school for good, and its all broken up into multiple pieces each just long enough where as soon as I finish one I have a headache, and for some reason I cant focus and I have to take a break. Its 3:02 am and im up cause im like way worse at this type of thing than I should be. Really I dont know why this is so hard for me. Like this is objectively not that difficult, just time consuming. But every time I would open up a document and start writing, within a few words my brain was empty or I was tripping over my words and in general had a weird feeling of wanting to distance myself from it. Probably something to do with avoiding the problem and hoping it goes away (literally what im doing right now like a dumbbutt).
Since Im already rambling I guess, I often get the sense that theres two parts of the brain. One is rational and can plan things out, can make unpleasant choices that sacrifice their short term for greater long term payoff. The other half gets to make the decisions day to day, like physically moving and talking. The executive can really only physically move for short whiles, eventually they always lose interest and give up control to the simpler, more efficient part of the brain. Pretty sure thats something to do with the id and ego and whatever but tbh I dont know what those words mean.
And its so frustrating, because youre simultaneously doing one thing while knowing its not productive and that you should be working to finish that huge final project due in like 4 hours. Im fully capable of planning and saying 'oh, I want to do this tomorrow so I cant do anything before that' but I still completely disregard my own plans.
Sorry, its difficult to describe that repelling feeling because its not really a feeling more so than it is just like a sense(? I have no clue sorry) but its kind of like two positive magnets. Theres nothing or physical concrete pushing them apart but it still takes a lot of work to get them to go together.
The last few weeks have not been busy, as much as they have been draining. Its been weirldly amazing and difficult year for me personally, and I know Im saying that as a 16 year old with basically 0 life experience, but I have had a lot of things this year, good and bad. The day to day has been weirldly half fantastic and half challenging. Thats as much as youre getting from my personal issues, cause Im really not trying to make excuses.
First off Im in this position 100% because of my own concious actions. At the end of the day anything I blame is really just some bit of me that I am still responsible for. All my brain stuff isnt gonna go away I have to figure out what to do.
All in all, Im pretty disappointed in my myself for this. I really have no idea why this is so difficult for me to do, but ya know.
This has actually been amazingly useful as a way to learn about what makes assignments difficult for me, and what I can do to still get them done. Throughout the last two weeks, Ive learned lots of new ways that I can work better. Working somewhere besides my room, making a detailed, step-by-step schedule of what Im going to do that night, and the importance of getting into a writing flow. Ive always done my assignemnts in one night before, and in my experience I have better odds of remaining engaged in a task if I can just put my head down and do the whole thing all at once.
Idk what this is Im just really tired and dead so idk enjoy the website its pretty sick actually not to flex</p>
